---
dg-publish: dg-publish
---
Canter [32] found no differences in the number of pauses or mean pause du ration between [[Parkinsonova nemoc|PD]] patients and HC during a reading task. However, in 1986, Metter et al. [155] did demonstrate the presence of such speech rate abnormalities in HD. They analysed the performance of acoustic measurements applied on the first and the last sentence in order to evaluate the hypothesis of altered speech rate and rhythm in patients with PD and confirmed an age-related reduction of articulation rate that was proposed by Weismer [242] back in 1984. Furthermore, a gender specific patterns of speech rhythm was re ferred. However, neither gender-related differences between PD patients and HC in speech rate parameters (total speech rate, net speech rate), nor overall distinctions in speech rate between PD and HC were observed. Later, in 2009, Skodda et al. performed a longitudinal study [214] reporting speech rate variation closely related to the progression of PD and confirmed the previous findings of Ho et al. [118], in which decisive impairment of speech fluency was found specifically in the more ad vanced stages of PD. Two years later, in 2011, Skodda et al. investigated net speech rate of patients with PD during a reading task and observed no significant distinc tions of this measure between PD patients and HC [212]. In addition, they reported increased number of pauses per second during a reading task in their another work from the same year [217]. And finally, in 2015, authors Bandini et al. [13] employed a study evaluating patterns of dysprosody in 14 male and 6 female PD patients via a fully automated tool and showed that PD patients exhibit longer pauses between sentence repetitions. In contrast to the findings reported by Bandini et al., Skodda and colleagues performed several studies [216, 217] reporting shorter pauses between sentences. However, as stated by Bandini et al. such distinction is a consequence of a difference between the speech tasks (sentence repetition task [13] and reading of a passage [216, 217])